---
title: "DiffFake: Exposing Deepfakes using Differential Anomaly Detection"
authors:
- admin
- Sotirios Stamnas, Victor Sanchez
author_notes:
- "Equal contribution"
- "Equal contribution"
date: "2025-09-01T00:00:00Z"
doi: ""

# Schedule page publish date (NOT publication's date).
publishDate: "2025-01-01T00:00:00Z"

# Publication type.
# Accepts a single type but formatted as a YAML list (for Hugo requirements).
# Enter a publication type from the CSL standard.
publication_types: ["paper-conference"] 

# Publication name and optional abbreviated publication name.
publication: "WACVW"
publication_short: ""

abstract: Traditional deepfake detectors have dealt with the detection problem as a binary classification task. This approach can achieve satisfactory results in cases where samples of a given deepfake generation technique have been seen during training, but can easily fail with deepfakes generated by other techniques. In this paper, we propose DiffFake, a novel deepfake detector that approaches the detection problem as an anomaly detection task. Specifically, DiffFake learns natural changes that occur between two facial images of the same person by leveraging a differential anomaly detection framework. This is done by combining pairs of deep face embeddings and using them to train an anomaly detection model. We further propose to train a feature extractor on pseudo-deepfakes with global and local artifacts, to extract meaningful and generalizable features that can then be used to train the anomaly detection model. We perform extensive experiments on five different deepfake datasets and show that our method can match and sometimes even exceed the performance of state-of-the-art competitors.




# links:
# - name: ""
#   url: ""
url_pdf: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2502.16247
url_code: 'https://github.com/sotossta/DiffFake'
url_dataset: ''
url_poster: ''
url_project: ''
url_slides: ''
url_source: ''
url_video: ''

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
image:
  caption: 'Image credit: [**Unsplash**](https://unsplash.com/photos/jdD8gXaTZsc)'
  focal_point: ""
  preview_only: false

# Associated Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `internal-project` references `content/project/internal-project/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects: []`.
projects: []

